*** Protocols

SMTP - Protocol for sending mail
IMAP - Protocol for getting mail where client don't download the mail but just syncs with server to view the mail, better for multiple clients from anywhere to read their email
POP3 - Protocol for getting mail where client downloads the mails and then server can optionally delete it (configurable)

IMAPS, SMTPS - TLS wrapper to provide encryption for IMAP/SMTP

DNS - DNS is used to route mail through the internet using MX records

*** Programs

MUA - Mail user agent. User Program that get mail from a MDA.
      Programs: Thunderbird, Outlook, Evolution, etc.

MDA - Mail delivery agent. Server program that serves over IMAP/POP3. Keeps track of read/unread mails, drafts, etc.
      Programs: Dovecot, etc.

MTA - Mail transfer agent. Server program that sends the mail to other MTA, the MTA will use the MDA to store the messages after sending it.
      Programs: Sendmail, OpenSMTPD, Postfix, etc.

*** Email Provider Features

Most email providers like Gmail/Yahoo/Outlook provides these features:

Forwarding mail - Forwards a mail received to another account
IMAP/POP3       - Allows user to download their mail to their computer via IMAP/POP3, need to enable these in the email settings to use it from a MUA program.

Email clients like thunderbird just need the email account and password to access the mail (everything else is handled transparently)

*** SMTP Protocol

SMTP is a text based protocol that has two main parts, the envelope and data part.

The envelope describes the routing information on where to send the mail to.
The data part is what the mail client displays.

The data part also contains the From/To fields, which can be anything so they don't have to match the envelope part.
This can lead to spoofing of messages sender used by spammers.

The data can contain multipart messages (mime) where multiple message types are concatenated into a mime (such as a html representation of an ascii message)
and it is up to the email client to display which one works best for it.

SMTP can utilize DNS to provide things like redundancy and backups, where there are multiple MX records (DNS record that has info on where to route the mail)
and the client can try multiple SMTP servers if one fails to send the message.

